Robert Boulter is an English film , television and theatre actor . He had a guest @-@ starring role on the television series The Bill in 2000 . This was followed by a starring role in the play Herons written by Simon Stephens , which was performed in 2001 at the Royal Court Theatre . He had a guest role in the television series Judge John Deed in 2002 . In 2004 Boulter landed a role as " Craig " in the episode " Teddy 's Story " of the television series The Long Firm ; he starred alongside actors Mark Strong and Derek Jacobi . He was cast in the 2005 theatre productions of the Philip Ridley play Mercury Fur , which was performed at the Drum Theatre in Plymouth and the Menier Chocolate Factory in London . He was directed by John Tiffany and starred alongside Ben Whishaw , Shane Zaza , Harry Kent , Fraser Ayres , Sophie Stanton and Dominic Hall . In 2006 , Boulter starred alongside Whishaw in the play Citizenship written by Mark Ravenhill . He appeared on a 2006 episode of the television series , Doctors , followed by a role in the 2007 theatre production of How to Curse directed by Josie Rourke . How to Curse was performed at Bush Theatre in the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham . Boulter starred in two films in 2008 , Daylight Robbery by filmmaker Paris Leonti , and Donkey Punch directed by Olly Blackburn . In May 2008 , Boulter made a guest appearance on a two @-@ part episode arc of the television series Waking the Dead , followed by an appearance on the television series Survivors in November 2008 . He had a recurring role in ten episodes of the television series Casualty in 2010 , as " Kieron Fletcher " . Boulter starred in the 2011 film Mercenaries directed by Paris Leonti . In 2000 Boulter had a guest @-@ starring role on the television series The Bill ; he portrayed " Scott Parry " in the episode , " In Safe Hands " . Boulter starred as " Scott " in the play Herons written by Simon Stephens , which was performed in 2001 at the Royal Court Theatre . A review of Boulter 's performance in The Independent on Sunday described him as " horribly menacing " in the role , and he received critical reviews in The Herald , and Evening Standard . He appeared in the television series Judge John Deed in 2002 as " Addem Armitage " in the episode " Political Expediency " , and had a role as a different character " Toby Steele " on The Bill . He had a recurring role in 2003 on two episodes of The Bill , as character " Connor Price " . In 2004 Boulter landed a role as " Craig " in the episode " Teddy 's Story " of the television series The Long Firm ; he starred alongside actors Mark Strong and Derek Jacobi . Boulter starred as " Darren " , in the 2005 theatre productions of the Philip Ridley play Mercury Fur . It was performed at the Drum Theatre in Plymouth , and the Menier Chocolate Factory in London . He was directed by John Tiffany and starred alongside Ben Whishaw , Shane Zaza , Harry Kent , Fraser Ayres , Sophie Stanton and Dominic Hall . Boulter received a favorable review in The Daily Telegraph : " The acting is shatteringly intense , with wired performances from Ben Whishaw ( now unrecognisable from his performance as Trevor Nunn 's Hamlet ) , Robert Boulter , Shane Zaza and Fraser Ayres . " The Guardian noted , " Ben Whishaw and Robert Boulter offer tenderness amid the savagery . " In 2006 Boulter starred in the play Citizenship written by Mark Ravenhill . The play was part of a series which featured different playwrights , titled Burn / Chatroom / Citizenship . In a 2006 interview , fellow actor Ben Whishaw identified Boulter as one of his favorite co @-@ stars : " I loved working with a guy called Robert Boulter , who was in the triple bill of Burn , Chatroom and Citizenship at the National . He played my brother in Mercury Fur . " He portrayed " Jason Tyler " on the 2006 episode of the television series , Doctors , titled " Something I Ate " . Boulter starred as " William " in the 2007 production of How to Curse directed by Josie Rourke . How to Curse was performed at Bush Theatre in the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham . In a review of the production for The Daily Telegraph , theatre critic Charles Spencer noted , " Robert Boulter brings a touching vulnerability to the stage as William . " Boulter starred in two films in 2008 , Daylight Robbery by filmmaker Paris Leonti , and Donkey Punch directed by Olly Blackburn . Boulter portrayed a character named " Sean " in Donkey Punch , who tags along with character " Josh " as the " quiet brother ... who hits it off with Tammi " . Boulter guest starred on a two @-@ part episode arc " Wounds " in May 2008 of the television series Waking the Dead as character " Jimmy Dearden " . He appeared on the television series Survivors as " Neil " in November 2008 . He had a recurring role in ten episodes of the television series Casualty in 2010 , as " Kieron Fletcher " . He portrayed an emergency physician applying for a medical fellowship . He commented on the inherent difficulties in portraying a physician on television : " Playing a doctor is a strange experience . Pretending you know what you 're talking about when you don 't is very bizarre but there are advisers on set who are fantastic at taking you through procedures and giving you the confidence to stand there and look like you know what you 're doing . " Boulter starred in the 2011 film Mercenaries directed by Paris Leonti . Du Fu ( Wade – Giles : Tu Fu ; Chinese : 杜甫 ; 712 – 770 ) was a prominent Chinese poet of the Tang dynasty . Along with Li Bai ( Li Po ) , he is frequently called the greatest of the Chinese poets . His greatest ambition was to serve his country as a successful civil servant , but he proved unable to make the necessary accommodations . His life , like the whole country , was devastated by the An Lushan Rebellion of 755 , and his last 15 years were a time of almost constant unrest . Although initially he was little @-@ known to other writers , his works came to be hugely influential in both Chinese and Japanese literary culture . Of his poetic writing , nearly fifteen hundred poems have been preserved over the ages . He has been called the " Poet @-@ Historian " and the " Poet @-@ Sage " by Chinese critics , while the range of his work has allowed him to be introduced to Western readers as " the Chinese Virgil , Horace , Ovid , Shakespeare , Milton , Burns , Wordsworth , Béranger , Hugo or Baudelaire " . Traditional Chinese literary criticism emphasized the life of the author when interpreting a work , a practice which Burton Watson attributes to " the close links that traditional Chinese thought posits between art and morality " . Since many of Du Fu 's poems feature morality and history , this practice is particularly important . Another reason , identified by the Chinese historian William Hung , is that Chinese poems are typically concise , omitting context that might be relevant , but which an informed contemporary could be assumed to know . For modern Western readers , " The less accurately we know the time , the place and the circumstances in the background , the more liable we are to imagine it incorrectly , and the result will be that we either misunderstand the poem or fail to understand it altogether " . Stephen Owen suggests a third factor particular to Du Fu , arguing that the variety of the poet 's work required consideration of his whole life , rather than the " reductive " categorizations used for more limited poets . Most of what is known of Du Fu 's life comes from his poems . His paternal grandfather was Du Shenyan , a noted politician and poet during the reign of Empress Wu . Du Fu was born in 712 ; the exact birthplace is unknown , except that it was near Luoyang , Henan province ( Gong county is a favourite candidate ) . In later life , he considered himself to belong to the capital city of Chang 'an , ancestral hometown of the Du family . Du Fu 's mother died shortly after he was born , and he was partially raised by his aunt . He had an elder brother , who died young . He also had three half brothers and one half sister , to whom he frequently refers in his poems , although he never mentions his stepmother . The son of a minor scholar @-@ official , his youth was spent on the standard education of a future civil servant : study and memorisation of the Confucian classics of philosophy , history and poetry . He later claimed to have produced creditable poems by his early teens , but these have been lost . In the early 730s , he travelled in the Jiangsu / Zhejiang area ; his earliest surviving poem , describing a poetry contest , is thought to date from the end of this period , around 735 . In that year , he took the civil service exam , likely in Chang 'an . He failed , to his surprise and that of centuries of later critics . Hung concludes that he probably failed because his prose style at the time was too dense and obscure , while Chou suggests his failure to cultivate connections in the capital may have been to blame . After this failure , he went back to traveling , this time around Shandong and Hebei . His father died around 740 . Du Fu would have been allowed to enter the civil service because of his father 's rank , but he is thought to have given up the privilege in favour of one of his half brothers . He spent the next four years living in the Luoyang area , fulfilling his duties in domestic affairs . In the autumn of 744 , he met Li Bai ( Li Po ) for the first time , and the two poets formed a friendship . David Young describes this as " the most significant formative element in Du Fu 's artistic development " because it gave him a living example of the reclusive poet @-@ scholar life to which he was attracted after his failure in the civil service exam . The relationship was somewhat one @-@ sided , however . Du Fu was by some years the younger , while Li Bai was already a poetic star . We have twelve poems to or about Li Bai from the younger poet , but only one in the other direction . They met again only once , in 745 . In 746 , he moved to the capital in an attempt to resurrect his official career . He took the civil service exam a second time during the following year , but all the candidates were failed by the prime minister ( apparently in order to prevent the emergence of possible rivals ) . He never again attempted the examinations , instead petitioning the emperor directly in 751 , 754 and probably again in 755 . He married around 752 , and by 757 the couple had had five children — three sons and two daughters — but one of the sons died in infancy in 755 . From 754 he began to have lung problems ( probably asthma ) , the first of a series of ailments which dogged him for the rest of his life . It was in that year that Du Fu was forced to move his family due to the turmoil of a famine brought about by massive floods in the region . In 755 , he received an appointment as Registrar of the Right Commandant 's office of the Crown Prince 's Palace . Although this was a minor post , in normal times it would have been at least the start of an official career . Even before he had begun work , however , the position was swept away by events . The An Lushan Rebellion began in December 755 , and was not completely suppressed for almost eight years . It caused enormous disruption to Chinese society : the census of 754 recorded 52 @.@ 9 million people , but ten years later , the census counted just 16 @.@ 9 million , the remainder having been displaced or killed . During this time , Du Fu led a largely itinerant life unsettled by wars , associated famines and imperial displeasure . This period of unhappiness was the making of Du Fu as a poet : Even Shan Chou has written that , " What he saw around him — the lives of his family , neighbors , and strangers – what he heard , and what he hoped for or feared from the progress of various campaigns — these became the enduring themes of his poetry " . Even when he learned of the death of his youngest child , he turned to the suffering of others in his poetry instead of dwelling upon his own misfortunes . Du Fu wrote : Brooding on what I have lived through , if even I know such suffering , the common man must surely be rattled by the winds . In 756 , Emperor Xuanzong was forced to flee the capital and abdicate . Du Fu , who had been away from the city , took his family to a place of safety and attempted to join the court of the new emperor ( Suzong ) , but he was captured by the rebels and taken to Chang 'an . In the autumn , his youngest son , Du Zongwu ( Baby Bear ) , was born . Around this time Du Fu is thought to have contracted malaria . He escaped from Chang 'an the following year , and was appointed Reminder when he rejoined the court in May 757 . This post gave access to the emperor but was largely ceremonial . Du Fu 's conscientiousness compelled him to try to make use of it : he caused trouble for himself by protesting the removal of his friend and patron Fang Guan on a petty charge . He was arrested but was pardoned in June . He was granted leave to visit his family in September , but he soon rejoined the court and on December 8 , 757 , he returned to Chang 'an with the emperor following its recapture by government forces . However , his advice continued to be unappreciated , and in the summer of 758 he was demoted to a post as Commissioner of Education in Huazhou . The position was not to his taste : in one poem , he wrote : I am about to scream madly in the office / Especially when they bring more papers to pile higher on my desk . He moved on in the summer of 759 ; this has traditionally been ascribed to famine , but Hung believes that frustration is a more likely reason . He next spent around six weeks in Qinzhou ( now Tianshui , Gansu province ) , where he wrote more than sixty poems . In December 759 , he briefly stayed in Tonggu ( modern Gansu ) . He departed on December 24 for Chengdu ( Sichuan province ) , where he was hosted by local Prefect and fellow poet Pei Di . Du subsequently based himself in Sichuan for most of the next five years . By the autumn of that year he was in financial trouble , and sent poems begging help to various acquaintances . He was relieved by Yan Wu , a friend and former colleague who was appointed governor general at Chengdu . Despite his financial problems , this was one of the happiest and most peaceful periods of his life . Many of Du 's poems from this period are peaceful depictions of his life at " thatched hut " . In 762 , he left the city to escape a rebellion , but he returned in summer 764 when he was appointed an advisor to Yan , who was involved in campaigns against the Tibetan Empire . Luoyang , the region of his birthplace , was recovered by government forces in the winter of 762 , and in the spring of 765 Du Fu and his family sailed down the Yangtze , apparently with the intention of making their way there . They traveled slowly , held up by his ill @-@ health ( by this time he was suffering from poor eyesight , deafness and general old age in addition to his previous ailments ) . They stayed in Kuizhou ( in what is now Baidicheng , Chongqing ) at the entrance to the Three Gorges for almost two years from late spring 766 . This period was Du Fu 's last great poetic flowering , and here he wrote 400 poems in his dense , late style . In autumn 766 , Bo Maolin became governor of the region : he supported Du Fu financially and employed him as his unofficial secretary . In March 768 , he began his journey again and got as far as Hunan province , where he died in Tanzhou ( now Changsha ) in November or December 770 , in his 58th year . He was survived by his wife and two sons , who remained in the area for some years at least . His last known descendant is a grandson who requested a grave inscription for the poet from Yuan Zhen in 813 . Hung summarises his life by concluding that , " He appeared to be a filial son , an affectionate father , a generous brother , a faithful husband , a loyal friend , a dutiful official , and a patriotic subject . " Below is an example of one of Du Fu 's later works , To My Retired Friend Wei ( Chinese : 贈衛八處士 ) . Like many other poems in the Tang it featured the theme of a long parting between friends , which was often due to officials being frequently transferred to the provinces : Criticism of Du Fu 's works has focused on his strong sense of history , his moral engagement , and his technical excellence . Since the Song dynasty , critics have called Du Fu the " poet historian " ( 詩史 shī shǐ ) . The most directly historical of his poems are those commenting on military tactics or the successes and failures of the government , or the poems of advice which he wrote to the emperor . Indirectly , he wrote about the effect of the times in which he lived on himself , and on the ordinary people of China . As Watson notes , this is information " of a kind seldom found in the officially compiled histories of the era " . Du Fu 's political comments are based on emotion rather than calculation : his prescriptions have been paraphrased as , " Let us all be less selfish , let us all do what we are supposed to do " . Since his views were impossible to disagree with , his forcefully expressed truisms enabled his installation as the central figure of Chinese poetic history . A second favourite epithet of Chinese critics is that of " poet sage " ( 詩聖 shī shèng ) , a counterpart to the philosophical sage , Confucius . One of the earliest surviving works , The Song of the Wagons ( from around 750 ) , gives voice to the sufferings of a conscript soldier in the imperial army and a clear @-@ sighted consciousness of suffering . These concerns are continuously articulated in poems on the lives of both soldiers and civilians produced by Du Fu throughout his life . Although Du Fu 's frequent references to his own difficulties can give the impression of an all @-@ consuming solipsism , Hawkes argues that his " famous compassion in fact includes himself , viewed quite objectively and almost as an afterthought " . He therefore " lends grandeur " to the wider picture by comparing it to " his own slightly comical triviality " . Du Fu 's compassion , for himself and for others , was part of his general broadening of the scope of poetry : he devoted many works to topics which had previously been considered unsuitable for poetic treatment . Zhang Jie wrote that for Du Fu , " everything in this world is poetry " , Du wrote extensively on subjects such as domestic life , calligraphy , paintings , animals , and other poems . Du Fu 's work is notable above all for its range . Chinese critics traditionally used the term 集大成 ( jídàchéng- " complete symphony " ) , a reference to Mencius ' description of Confucius . Yuan Zhen was the first to note the breadth of Du Fu 's achievement , writing in 813 that his predecessor , " united in his work traits which previous men had displayed only singly " . He mastered all the forms of Chinese poetry : Chou says that in every form he " either made outstanding advances or contributed outstanding examples " . Furthermore , his poems use a wide range of registers , from the direct and colloquial to the allusive and self @-@ consciously literary . This variety is manifested even within individual works : Owen identifies the , " rapid stylistic and thematic shifts " in poems which enable the poet to represent different facets of a situation , while Chou uses the term " juxtaposition " as the major analytical tool in her work . Du Fu is noted for having written more on poetics and painting than any other writer of his time . He wrote eighteen poems on painting alone , more than any other Tang poet . Du Fu 's seemingly negative commentary on the prized horse paintings of Han Gan ignited a controversy that has persisted to the present day . The tenor of his work changed as he developed his style and adapted to his surroundings ( " chameleon @-@ like " according to Watson ) : his earliest works are in a relatively derivative , courtly style , but he came into his own in the years of the rebellion . Owen comments on the " grim simplicity " of the Qinzhou poems , which mirrors the desert landscape ; the works from his Chengdu period are " light , often finely observed " ; while the poems from the late Kuizhou period have a " density and power of vision " . Although he wrote in all poetic forms , Du Fu is best known for his lǜshi , a type of poem with strict constraints on form and content , for example : About two thirds of Du Fu 's 1500 extant works are in this form , and he is generally considered to be its leading exponent . His best lǜshi use the parallelisms required by the form to add expressive content rather than as mere technical restrictions . Hawkes comments that , " it is amazing that Tu Fu is able to use so immensely stylized a form in so natural a manner " . According to the Encyclopædia Britannica , Du Fu 's writings are considered by many literary critics to be among the greatest of all time , and it states " his dense , compressed language makes use of all the connotative overtones of a phrase and of all the intonational potentials of the individual word , qualities that no translation can ever reveal . " In his lifetime and immediately following his death , Du Fu was not greatly appreciated . In part this can be attributed to his stylistic and formal innovations , some of which are still " considered extremely daring and bizarre by Chinese critics . " There are few contemporary references to him — only eleven poems from six writers — and these describe him in terms of affection , but not as a paragon of poetic or moral ideals . Du Fu is also poorly represented in contemporary anthologies of poetry . However , as Hung notes , he " is the only Chinese poet whose influence grew with time " , and his works began to increase in popularity in the ninth century . Early positive comments came from Bai Juyi , who praised the moral sentiments of some of Du Fu 's works ( although he found these in only a small fraction of the poems ) , and from Han Yu , who wrote a piece defending Du Fu and Li Bai on aesthetic grounds from attacks made against them . Both these writers showed the influence of Du Fu in their own poetic work . By the beginning of the 10th century , Wei Zhuang constructed the first replica of his thatched cottage in Sichuan . It was in the 11th century , during the Northern Song era that Du Fu 's reputation reached its peak . In this period a comprehensive re @-@ evaluation of earlier poets took place , in which Wang Wei , Li Bai and Du Fu came to be regarded as representing respectively the Buddhist , Daoist and Confucian strands of Chinese culture . At the same time , the development of Neo @-@ Confucianism ensured that Du Fu , as its poetic exemplar , occupied the paramount position . Su Shi famously expressed this reasoning when he wrote that Du Fu was " preeminent ... because ... through all his vicissitudes , he never for the space of a meal forgot his sovereign " . His influence was helped by his ability to reconcile apparent opposites : political conservatives were attracted by his loyalty to the established order , while political radicals embraced his concern for the poor . Literary conservatives could look to his technical mastery , while literary radicals were inspired by his innovations . Since the establishment of the People 's Republic of China , Du Fu 's loyalty to the state and concern for the poor have been interpreted as embryonic nationalism and socialism , and he has been praised for his use of simple , " people 's language " . Du Fu 's popularity grew to such an extent that it is as hard to measure his influence as that of Shakespeare in England : it was hard for any Chinese poet not to be influenced by him . While there was never another Du Fu , individual poets followed in the traditions of specific aspects of his work : Bai Juyi 's concern for the poor , Lu You 's patriotism , and Mei Yaochen 's reflections on the quotidian are a few examples . More broadly , Du Fu 's work in transforming the lǜshi from mere word play into " a vehicle for serious poetic utterance " set the stage for every subsequent writer in the genre . In the 20th century , he was the favourite poet of Kenneth Rexroth , who has described him as " the greatest non @-@ epic , non @-@ dramatic poet who has survived in any language " , and commented that , " he has made me a better man , as a moral agent and as a perceiving organism " . Du Fu 's poetry has made a profound impact on Japanese literature , especially on the literature from the Muromachi period and on scholars and poets in the Edo period , including Matsuo Bashō , the very greatest of all haiku poets . Even in modern Japanese , the term Saint of Poetry ( 詩聖 , shisei ) is mostly synonymous with Du Fu . Until the 13th century , the Japanese preferred Bai Juyi above all poets and there were few references to Du Fu , although his influence can be seen in some kanshi ( " Chinese poetry made by Japanese poets " ) anthologies such as Bunka Shūreishū in the 9th century . The first notable Japanese appreciator of Du Fu 's poetry was Kokan Shiren ( 1278 – 1346 ) , a Rinzai Zen patriarch and one of the most prominent authors of the literature of the Five Mountains ; he highly praised Du Fu and made a commentary on some poems of Du Fu from the perspective of a Zen priest in Vol . 11 of Saihokushū . His student Chūgan Engetsu composed many kanshi which were clearly stated " influenced by Du Fu " in their prefaces . Chūgan 's student Gidō Shūshin had close connection with the Court and Ashikaga Shogunate and propagated Du Fu 's poetry in the mundane world ; one day Nijō Yoshimoto , the Kampaku regent of the Court and the highest authority of renga poetry , asked Gidō , " Should I learn the poetry of Du Fu and Li Bai ? " Gidō dared to reply , " Yes if you do have enough capability . No if do not . " Since then , there had been many seminars on Du Fu 's poetry both in Zen temples and in the aristocratic society , and as a result his poetry was often cited in Japanese literature in the Muromachi period , e.g. , Taiheiki , a historical epic in the late 14th century , and some noh plays such as Hyakuman , Bashō , and Shunkan . During the Kan 'ei era of the Edo period ( 1624 – 1643 ) , Shào Chuán ( 邵傳 ) of the Ming Dynasty 's Collective Commentary on Du Fu 's Lǜshi ( 杜律集解 , Toritsu Shikkai ) was imported into Japan , and it gained explosive popularity in Confucian scholars and chōnin ( townspeople ) class . The commentary established Du Fu 's fame as the highest of all poets ; for instance , Hayashi Shunsai , a notable Confucian scholar , commented in Vol . 37 of Gahō Bunshū that Zǐměi [ Du Fu ] was the very best poet in history and praised Shào Chuán 's commentary for its simplicity and readability , while he criticized old commentaries during the Yuan Dynasty were too unfathomable . Matsuo Bashō , the greatest haiku poet , was also strongly influenced by Du Fu ; in Oku no Hosomichi , his masterpiece , he cites the first two lines of A Spring View ( 春望 ) before a haiku as its introduction and also many of his other haiku have similar wording and themes . It is said that when he died in Osaka during a long travel , a copy of Du Fu 's poetry was found with him as one of a few precious items which he was able to carry around . A variety of styles have been used in efforts to translate Du Fu 's work into English . As Burton Watson remarks in The Selected Poems of Du Fu , " There are many different ways to approach the problems involved in translating Du Fu , which is why we need as many different translations as possible " ( p. xxii ) . The translators have had to contend with bringing out the formal constraints of the original without sounding laboured to a Western ear ( particularly when translating regulated verse , or lǜshi ) , and accommodating the complex allusions contained particularly in the later works ( Hawkes writes that " his poems do not as a rule come through very well in translation " — p. ix ) . One extreme on each issue is represented by Kenneth Rexroth 's One Hundred Poems From the Chinese . His are free translations , which seek to conceal the parallelisms through enjambement and expansion and contraction of the content ; his responses to the allusions are firstly to omit most of these poems from his selection , and secondly to " translate out " the references in those works which he does select . Other translators have placed much greater weight on trying to convey a sense of the poetic forms used by Du Fu . Vikram Seth in Three Chinese Poets uses English @-@ style rhyme schemes , whereas Keith Holyoak in Facing the Moon approximates the Chinese rhyme scheme ; both use end @-@ stopped lines and preserve some degree of parallelism . In The Selected Poems of Du Fu , Burton Watson follows the parallelisms quite strictly , persuading the western reader to adapt to the poems rather than vice versa . Similarly , he deals with the allusion of the later works by combining literal translation with extensive annotation . In 2015 , Stephen Owen published translations , with facing Chinese texts , of the complete poetry of Du Fu in six volumes , with extensive scholarly apparatus , which emphasized literalness . " Kiss You " is a song recorded by English @-@ Irish boy band One Direction for their second studio album , Take Me Home ( 2012 ) . It was released as the record 's second single in Germany and the third overall single on 7 January 2013 . The song was composed by Kristoffer Fogelmark , Kristian Lundin , Albin Nedler , Savan Kotecha , Shellback and its producers , Carl Falk and Rami Yacoub . " Kiss You " is an upbeat power pop song with electronic effects ; the lyrics detail a protagonist 's infatuation with a significant other . Critics praised the song for its production , calling it a stand @-@ out track on Take Me Home . The track became the group 's sixth top @-@ ten hit in Ireland and the United Kingdom , while attaining top @-@ forty positions in both Belgian territories ( Flanders and Wallonia ) , as well as in Australia , Canada , Denmark , France , New Zealand , and the Netherlands . The single peaked at number 46 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and has been certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) for shipments of 500 @,@ 000 copies . One Direction performed " Kiss You " on both the UK and US versions of The X Factor and 3 major concert tours : Take Me Home Tour ( 2013 ) , Where We Are Tour ( 2014 ) and On the Road Again Tour ( 2015 ) . An accompanying music video , designed to display the group 's comedic timing , was directed by Vaughan Arnell , who had previously worked with the group on two other music videos . The clip depicts the band shooting various scenes via a green screen , which include sequences reminiscent of iconic music videos of songs such as the Beach Boys ' " Surfer Girl " , Elvis Presley 's " Jailhouse Rock " and Rammstein 's " Mein Land " . The music video received 10 @.@ 4 million views in a 24 @-@ hour period and positive commentary from reviewers , who appreciated its carefree , jubilant nature . The song was included in the dancing game Just Dance 2014 , and is also one of the select songs available on the demo version . Additionally , it is the final main track on the US edition of Now That 's What I Call Music ! 46 . " Kiss You " was written by Kristoffer Fogelmark , Kristian Lundin , Albin Nedler , Savan Kotecha , Shellback , and its producers , Carl Falk and Rami Yacoub . Falk , Kotecha , and Yacoub had collaboratively composed One Direction 's previous hit singles , " What Makes You Beautiful " , " One Thing " , and " Live While We 're Young " . In April 2012 , The Independent reported that Simon Cowell , the group 's manager , had challenged prominent songwriters to compete for space on One Direction 's second album . Falk said , " It 's important to get their personalities on the music . " In addition , the article reported that Syco Records was working on candidates that included Max Martin and Lundin . " Kiss You " was chosen as the second US single and third international from their second studio album , Take Me Home . Liam Payne , a group member , in a November 2012 interview with MTV News , explained why they chose " Kiss You " as the album 's second single in the US . Payne was quoted as saying : " With the album , that 's the first one that we listened to and we were like , ' Yeah , we love this song ' " . According to a MTV News article , the number was released digitally in the United States on 17 November 2012 . By 18 January 2013 , the song had not been officially promoted to US radio stations . The track , however , was released by Sony Music Entertainment on 8 February 2013 , as the record 's second single in Germany . " Kiss You " is an uptempo , upbeat power pop song which runs for a duration of 3 : 04 ( 3 minutes , four seconds ) . The track features electronic effects , colossal hooks , a " na na na " breakdown , and a Motown @-@ tinged melody . One Direction 's vocal range in the song span from the note of E4 to C ♯ 6 . Instrumentation includes guitar strings , piano lines and vocals . Written in the key of E major , the beat is set in common time and moves at a quick 90 beats per minute , according to the digital sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Sony / ATV Music Publishing . Likewise , Matt Collar from Allmusic noted that the track is " frenetically hyper " . The lyrical content regards the protagonist 's infatuation with a significant other , and incorporates euphemisms for sexual intercourse in the lines " If you don ’ t wanna take it slow / And you just wanna take me home / Baby say yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah . " " Kiss You " was well received by contemporary music critics , who centred on its quality of production . Both Rolling Stone 's Jon Dolan , who praised its effectiveness , and Chris Payne of Billboard , who appreciated the melody , described " Kiss You " as one of the album 's highlights . Alexis Petridis for The Guardian commended the track 's chorus as " hard to dislodge from your brain " . Robert Copsey of Digital Spy noted the song 's possibility to become an international hit , applauding it sonically . A reviewer for MTV News described the track 's lyricism as " butterflies @-@ inducing " , and Sam Lansky of Idolator wrote that " Kiss You " is noticeably a stand @-@ out track on its parent album . Melinda Newman , writing for HitFix , regarded the song as " a bouncy , electronic infectious ditty , " while Chris Younie , a critic from 4Music , deemed it an " amazing pop song " , lauding the group 's falsetto and its " head @-@ banging anthemic " chorus . The single made its Irish Singles Chart debut at number 24 on the week ending 13 December 2012 . It peaked at number seven on the week ending 17 January 2013 , marking their sixth top ten appearance in Ireland . " Kiss You " entered at number 152 in the UK Singles Chart on 24 November 2012 . It peaked at number nine on the UK Singles Chart on 26 January 2013 , becoming One Direction 's sixth top ten hit in the United Kingdom . On the week ending 18 November 2012 , " Kiss You " debuted at number 90 on the United States Billboard Hot 100 due to digital download sales from its parent album . As a result of an " end @-@ of @-@ year download rush " on the week ending 30 December 2012 , the track re @-@ entered the Hot 100 at number 83 . After the accompanying music video was released , the song re @-@ entered the Hot 100 at number 65 . " Kiss You " had sold 207 @,@ 000 digital downloads in the US by 18 January 2013 . The single ultimately peaked at number 46 on the Hot 100 and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) on 25 April 2013 , denoting shipments of 500 @,@ 000 copies . The song became One Direction 's fourth top @-@ forty hit on the Canadian Hot 100 , peaking at number 30 . The single bowed at number 13 on the Australian Singles Chart on 27 January 2013 , marking its peak position and the group 's fourth top twenty hit in Australia . The song has been certified platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ) for shipments of 70 @,@ 000 copies . The track entered the New Zealand Singles Chart at number 17 on 11 January 2013 . It peaked at number 13 in its third and fourth charting weeks , becominh the group 's sixth top @-@ forty appearance in New Zealand . " Kiss You " has received a gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand ( RIANZ ) , indicating sales of 7 @,@ 500 copies . The track also reached the top 40 in both Belgian territories ( Flanders and Wallonia ) , as well as in the Czech Republic , Denmark , France , the Netherlands , and South Korea . In addition , " Kiss You " received gold certifications from the IFPI Norway and Denmark associations , signifying collective shipments of 20 @,@ 000 units . The accompanying music video , directed by Vaughan Arnell , who had previously directed One Direction 's music videos for " Live While We 're Young " and " Little Things " , was designed to showcase the group 's comedic timing . Inspired by the Beach Boys , cult surfing films , old Hollywood , and British cinema , the music video incorporates " a technicolor vibe and a British kind of romp " , as noted by Arnell in a MTV News interview . Shot by November 2012 , the music video was characterised , in several MTV News interviews , as " bigger than anything we 've done before " by Zayn Malik , as " a lot of hard work " by Payne , as " pure stupidity " by Louis Tomlinson , and as " I wouldn 't say [ it 's ] comedy , it 's all tongue @-@ in @-@ cheek " by Arnell . Premiering worldwide on Vevo on 7 January 2013 , the music video depicts the band shooting different scenes via a green screen , dressed as sailors , surfers , skiers and jailers . The video features scenes reminiscent of the films South Pacific , To Catch a Thief , Jailhouse Rock and Beach Blanket Bingo , as well as the iconic music videos of songs such as The Beach Boys ' " Surfer Girl " , Elvis Presley 's " Blue Hawaii " and Rammstein 's " Mein Land " , among others . The music video garnered 10 @.@ 4 million views in a 24 @-@ hour period , failing to attain the Vevo record held by Justin Bieber 's " Beauty and a Beat " music video ( 10 @.@ 6 million ) . Despite a 34 % gain in weekly activity to their Vevo channel , with the clip 's success and preceding teaser videos earning 38 million views during the week , One Direction held at number two on the Billboard 's Social 50 chart A 15 % rise in Facebook reaction gave way to a 154 @,@ 000 increase in Facebook likes during the week . 191 @,@ 000 Twitter followers added contributed to their overall fan base increase as well . Melinda Newman , a contributor for HitFix , favoured the clip as having " everything a video by a boy band should be " and found group 's careless tone delightful . Rebecca Macatee of E ! Online praised its " intentionally cheesy and utterly adorable " sequences , and MTV News 's Jocelyn Vena described the clip as " conquering old Hollywood " . Molly Chance , writing for Zap2it , was convinced that upon watching the " adorable " music video , the viewer should have a hard time disliking the group . Mikael Wood , the critic for Los Angeles Times , commended the group for " having a genuinely great time " , rather than going through the motions . As part of its promotion , One Direction performed the song on televised programmes and during their worldwide Take Me Home Tour ( 2013 ) . One Direction performed the track on The Today Show at the Rockefeller Center on 13 November 2012 , to a record crowd estimated at 15 @,@ 000 . " Kiss You " was included in the set list of the group 's 3 December 2012 sold @-@ out show at New York City 's Madison Square Garden . One Direction delivered a performance of " Kiss You " , in front of a video game @-@ themed set , on the final of the ninth series of The X Factor UK on 10 December 2012 . According to the Daily Mail , their " energetic rendition " of " Kiss You " proved that the group have an elusive quality . On 12 December 2012 , the group also performed the number on the final of the second season of The X Factor USA . Considering One Direction the " franchise 's biggest success story " , an editor for The Huffington Post opined that the boy band 's prominent presence on both the US and UK versions of The X Factor seemed fitting . Not only Take Me Home Tour , they also performance in Where We Are Tour ( 2014 ) & On the Road Again Tour ( 2015 ) CD single " Kiss You " – 3 : 04 " Little Things " – 3 : 42 Carl Falk — writing , production , programming , instruments , guitar , background vocals Kristoffer Fogelmark — background vocals Niall Horan — additional guitar Savan Kotecha — writing , background vocals Kristian Lundin — writing Albin Nedler — writing , background vocals Shellback — writing Rami Yacoub — writing , production , programming , instruments , bass Credits adapted from Take Me Home 's liner notes . The Ise @-@ class battleships ( 伊勢型戦艦 , Ise @-@ gata senkan ) were a pair of dreadnought battleships built for the Imperial Japanese Navy ( IJN ) during World War I. Originally intended to be repeats of the preceding Fusō class , they were redesigned before construction began . Both ships carried supplies for the survivors of the Great Kantō earthquake in 1923 . They were modernized in 1934 – 37 with improvements to their armour and machinery and a rebuilt superstructure in the pagoda mast style . Afterwards they played a minor role in the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War . Despite the expensive reconstructions , both vessels were considered obsolete by the eve of the Pacific War , and neither saw significant action in the early years of the war . Following the loss of most of the IJN 's large aircraft carriers during the Battle of Midway in mid @-@ 1942 , they were rebuilt with a flight deck replacing the rear pair of gun turrets to give them the ability to operate an air group of floatplanes . A lack of aircraft and qualified pilots , however , meant that they never actually operated their aircraft in combat . While awaiting their air group the sister ships were sometimes used to ferry troops and material to Japanese bases . They participated in the Battle of Cape Engaño in late 1944 , where they decoyed the American carrier fleet supporting the invasion of Leyte away from the landing beaches . Afterwards both ships were transferred to Southeast Asia ; in early 1945 they participated in Operation Kita , where they transported petrol and other strategic materials to Japan . The sisters were then reduced to reserve until they were sunk during American airstrikes in July . After the war they were scrapped in 1946 – 47 . The design of the Fusō @-@ class battleships was shaped both by the ongoing international naval arms race and a desire among Japanese naval planners to maintain a fleet of capital ships powerful enough to defeat the United States Navy in an encounter in Japanese territorial waters . The IJN 's fleet of battleships had proven highly successful in 1905 , the last year of the Russo @-@ Japanese War , which culminated in the destruction of the Russian Second and Third Pacific Squadrons at the Battle of Tsushima . In the aftermath , the Japanese Empire immediately turned its focus to the two remaining rivals for imperial dominance in the Pacific Ocean : Britain and the United States . Satō Tetsutarō , a Japanese Navy admiral and military theorist , speculated that conflict would inevitably arise between Japan and at least one of its two main rivals . To that end , he called for the Japanese Navy to maintain a fleet with at least 70 % as many capital ships as the US Navy . This ratio , Satō theorized , would enable the Imperial Japanese Navy to defeat the US Navy in one major battle in Japanese waters in any eventual conflict . Accordingly , the 1907 Imperial Defence Policy called for the construction of a battle fleet of eight modern battleships , 20 @,@ 000 long tons ( 20 @,@ 321 t ) each , and eight modern armoured cruisers , 18 @,@ 000 long tons ( 18 @,@ 289 t ) each . This was the genesis of the Eight @-@ Eight Fleet Program , the development of a cohesive battle line of sixteen capital ships . The launch of HMS Dreadnought in 1906 by the Royal Navy raised the stakes , and complicated Japan 's plans . Displacing 17 @,@ 900 long tons ( 18 @,@ 200 t ) and armed with ten 12 @-@ inch ( 30 @.@ 5 cm ) guns , Dreadnought rendered all existing battleships obsolete by comparison . The launch of the battlecruiser HMS Invincible the following year was a further setback for Japan 's quest for parity . When the two new Satsuma @-@ class battleships and two Tsukuba @-@ class armoured cruisers , launched by 1911 , were outclassed by their British counterparts , the Eight @-@ Eight Fleet Program was restarted . The first battleships built for the renewed Eight @-@ Eight Fleet Program were the two dreadnoughts of the Kawachi class , ordered in 1907 and laid down in 1908 . In 1910 , the Navy put forward a request to the Diet ( parliament ) to secure funding for the entirety of the program at once . Because of economic constraints , only four battlecruisers and a single battleship of the Fusō class were ultimately approved by the Diet . Three more Fusō @-@ class ships ( Yamashiro , Ise , and Hyūga ) were approved and all three were ordered in April 1913 . While Yamashiro was laid down later that year , the IJN lacked the funding to proceed with the construction of Ise and Hyūga until the Diet authorized additional funding for the ships in July 1914 . The progress of Fusō 's construction , while the IJN waited for the funding to be released and foreign developments , caused the IJN to reassess the Fusō @-@ class design . The distribution of the midships gun turrets was the most obvious flaw as they complicated the protection of the midships magazine and exposed more of the ship to the blast effects of the guns when they fired . Another issue was that Japanese sailors had problems maintaining a high rate of fire with the 45 @.@ 36 @-@ kilogram ( 100 @.@ 0 lb ) shells used in the manually loaded 152 @-@ millimetre ( 6 in ) secondary guns used in the Fusō class and earlier designs . To resolve this issue , the IJN designed a smaller 140 @-@ millimetre ( 5 @.@ 5 in ) gun that offset its lighter shell weight with a higher rate of fire . It also decided that the barbette armour of the earlier ships was too thin and wanted a modest increase in speed to partially counter the higher speeds of the latest foreign ships like the British Queen Elizabeth @-@ class battleships and Russian Borodino @-@ class battlecruisers . For financial reasons more powerful engines could not be ordered so the new design was lengthened slightly and the boiler rooms enlarged to increase speed by 0 @.@ 5 knots ( 0 @.@ 93 km / h ; 0 @.@ 58 mph ) to 23 knots ( 43 km / h ; 26 mph ) . To save weight the forecastle deck was shortened so that the lower midships gun turret was lower than in the Fusō class . This reduced the crew 's accommodations despite a significant increase in the crew 's numbers and naval historian Fukui Shizuo believed that these ships had the worst habitability of any Japanese capital ship . The final design was designated A @-@ 92 by the IJN and differed enough from the A @-@ 64 design of the Fusō class that it was considered a separate class . The ships had a length of 208 @.@ 18 metres ( 683 ft 0 in ) overall , a beam of 28 @.@ 65 metres ( 94 ft 0 in ) and a draught of 8 @.@ 93 metres ( 29 ft 4 in ) at deep load . They displaced 36 @,@ 500 long tons ( 37 @,@ 100 t ) at deep load , roughly 650 long tons ( 660 t ) more than the preceding class . Their crew consisted of 1 @,@ 360 officers and enlisted men . They had a metacentric height of 1 @.@ 737 metres ( 5 ft 8 @.@ 4 in ) at deep load . During the ships ' modernization during the 1930s , their forward superstructures were enlarged with multiple platforms added to their tripod foremasts . Both ships were also given torpedo bulges to improve their underwater protection and to compensate for the weight of the additional armour . In addition , their sterns were lengthened by 7 @.@ 62 metres ( 25 @.@ 0 ft ) . These changes increased their overall length to 213 @.@ 8 metres ( 701 ft ) , their beam to 31 @.@ 75 metres ( 104 ft 2 in ) and their draft to 9 @.@ 45 metres ( 31 ft 0 in ) . Their displacement increased over 5 @,@ 000 long tons ( 5 @,@ 100 t ) to 42 @,@ 001 long tons ( 42 @,@ 675 t ) at deep load . The crew now numbered 1 @,@ 376 officers and enlisted men . The Ise @-@ class ships had two sets of direct @-@ drive steam turbines , each of which drove two propeller shafts with 3 @.@ 429 @-@ metre ( 11 ft 3 in ) propellers . The high @-@ pressure turbines drove the wing shafts while the low @-@ pressure turbines drove the inner shafts . The turbines were designed to produce a total of 40 @,@ 000 or 45 @,@ 000 shaft horsepower ( 30 @,@ 000 or 34 @,@ 000 kW ) ( Hyūga and Ise respectively ) , using steam provided by 24 Kampon Ro Gō water @-@ tube boilers at working pressures of 13 – 16 @.@ 9 kg / cm2 ( 1 @,@ 275 – 1 @,@ 657 kPa ; 185 – 240 psi ) . Both ships comfortably exceeded their designed speed of 23 knots ( 43 km / h ; 26 mph ) during their sea trials ; Ise reached 23 @.@ 6 knots ( 43 @.@ 7 km / h ; 27 @.@ 2 mph ) from 56 @,@ 498 shp ( 42 @,@ 131 kW ) and Hyūga exceeded that with 24 knots ( 44 km / h ; 28 mph ) from 63 @,@ 211 shp ( 47 @,@ 136 kW ) . Each of the boilers consumed a mixture of coal and oil and the ships had a stowage capacity of 4 @,@ 607 long tons ( 4 @,@ 681 t ) of coal and 1 @,@ 411 long tons ( 1 @,@ 434 t ) of fuel oil , which gave them a range of 9 @,@ 680 nautical miles ( 17 @,@ 930 km ; 11 @,@ 140 mi ) at a speed of 14 knots ( 26 km / h ; 16 mph ) . Ise and Hyūga had three generators of 150 kilowatts ( 200 hp ) capacity and two 250 @-@ kilowatt ( 340 hp ) turbo generators at 225 volts . During their 1930s modernization , the boilers on each ship were replaced by eight new Kampon oil @-@ fired boilers , fitted into the former aft boiler room , and the forward funnel was removed . The turbines were replaced by four geared Kampon turbines with a designed output of 80 @,@ 000 shp ( 60 @,@ 000 kW ) intended to increase their speed to 24 @.@ 5 knots ( 45 @.@ 4 km / h ; 28 @.@ 2 mph ) . On her trials , Ise reached a top speed of 25 @.@ 26 knots ( 46 @.@ 78 km / h ; 29 @.@ 07 mph ) from 81 @,@ 050 shp ( 60 @,@ 440 kW ) . The fuel storage of the ships was increased to a total of 5 @,@ 113 long tons ( 5 @,@ 195 t ) of fuel oil that gave them a range of 7 @,@ 870 nautical miles ( 14 @,@ 580 km ; 9 @,@ 060 mi ) at a speed of 16 knots ( 30 km / h ; 18 mph ) . The twelve 45 @-@ calibre 35 @.@ 6 cm ( 14 @.@ 0 in ) Type 41 guns of the Ise class were mounted in three pairs of twin @-@ gun , superfiring turrets . Numbered one through six from front to rear , each turret weighed 655 long tons ( 666 t ) . The hydraulically powered turrets had an elevation capability of − 5 / + 20 degrees . The guns had a rate of fire of 1 @.@ 5 – 2 rounds per minute and could be loaded at any angle between -3 and + 20 degrees . In 1921 the elevation was increased to + 30 degrees and then to + 43 degrees during their mid @-@ 1930s modernization , except for No. 6 turret as its supporting structure could not be lowered . The recoil mechanism of the guns was also changed from a hydraulic to a pneumatic system , which allowed for a faster firing cycle of the main guns . By World War II , the guns used Type 91 armour @-@ piercing , capped shells . Each of these shells weighed 673 @.@ 5 kilograms ( 1 @,@ 485 lb ) and was fired at a muzzle velocity of 770 – 775 metres per second ( 2 @,@ 530 – 2 @,@ 540 ft / s ) . They had a maximum range of 25 @,@ 000 metres ( 27 @,@ 000 yd ) at + 20 degrees of elevation and 35 @,@ 450 meters ( 38 @,@ 770 yd ) at + 43 degrees after modernization . Also available was a 625 @-@ kilogram ( 1 @,@ 378 lb ) high @-@ explosive shell that had a muzzle velocity of 805 metres per second ( 2 @,@ 640 ft / s ) . A special Type 3 Sanshikidan incendiary shrapnel shell was developed in the 1930s for anti @-@ aircraft use . The ships ' secondary armament consisted of twenty 50 @-@ calibre 14 @-@ centimetre Type 3 . Eighteen of these were mounted in casemates in the forecastle and superstructure and the remaining pair were mounted on the deck above them and protected by gun shields . They had a maximum elevation of + 20 degrees which gave them ranges of 16 @,@ 300 metres ( 17 @,@ 800 yd ) . Each gun had a rate of fire of up to 10 rounds per minute . Anti @-@ aircraft defence was provided by four 40 @-@ calibre 3rd Year Type 8 @-@ centimetre AA guns in single mounts . The 7 @.@ 62 @-@ centimetre ( 3 in ) high @-@ angle guns had a maximum elevation of + 75 degrees , and had a rate of fire of 13 to 20 rounds per minute . They fired a 6 kg ( 13 lb ) projectile with a muzzle velocity of 680 m / s ( 2 @,@ 200 ft / s ) to a maximum height of 7 @,@ 500 metres ( 24 @,@ 600 ft ) . The ships were also fitted with six submerged 53 @.@ 3 @-@ centimetre ( 21 @.@ 0 in ) torpedo tubes , three on each broadside . They carried twelve to eighteen 6th Year Type torpedoes which had a 200 @-@ kilogram ( 440 lb ) warhead . They had three settings for range and speed : 15 @,@ 000 metres ( 16 @,@ 000 yd ) at 26 knots ( 48 km / h ; 30 mph ) , 10 @,@ 000 metres ( 11 @,@ 000 yd ) at 32 knots ( 59 km / h ; 37 mph ) , or 7 @,@ 000 metres ( 7 @,@ 700 yd ) at 37 knots ( 69 km / h ; 43 mph ) . In 1931 – 33 the AA guns were replaced with eight 40 @-@ caliber 12 @.@ 7 cm ( 5 @.@ 0 in ) Type 89 dual @-@ purpose guns , fitted on both sides of the forward superstructures in four twin @-@ gun mounts . When firing at surface targets , the guns had a range of 14 @,@ 700 metres ( 16 @,@ 100 yd ) ; they had a ceiling of 9 @,@ 440 metres ( 30 @,@ 970 ft ) at their maximum elevation of + 90 degrees . Their maximum rate of fire was 14 rounds a minute , but their sustained rate of fire was around eight rounds per minute . Two twin @-@ gun mounts for license @-@ built Vickers two @-@ pounder light AA guns were also added . These guns had a maximum elevation of + 80 degrees and a rate of fire of 200 rounds per minute . The pair of 14 cm guns on the upper deck were removed at this time . During the mid @-@ 1930s reconstruction the torpedo tubes were removed and the Vickers two @-@ pounders were replaced by twenty license @-@ built Hotchkiss 25 mm Type 96 light AA guns in 10 twin @-@ gun mounts . This was the standard Japanese light AA gun during World War II , but it suffered from severe design shortcomings that rendered it a largely ineffective weapon . According to historian Mark Stille , the twin and triple mounts " lacked sufficient speed in train or elevation ; the gun sights were unable to handle fast targets ; the gun exhibited excessive vibration ; the magazine was too small , and , finally , the gun produced excessive muzzle blast " . These 25 @-@ millimetre ( 0 @.@ 98 in ) guns had an effective range of 1 @,@ 500 – 3 @,@ 000 metres ( 1 @,@ 600 – 3 @,@ 300 yd ) , and an effective ceiling of 5 @,@ 500 metres ( 18 @,@ 000 ft ) at an elevation of 85 degrees . The maximum effective rate of fire was only between 110 and 120 rounds per minute because of the frequent need to change the fifteen @-@ round magazines . In addition the forward pair of 14 cm guns in the forecastle were removed at this time and the maximum elevation of the remaining guns was increased to + 30 degrees . The Ise @-@ class ships ' waterline protective belt had a maximum thickness of 299 mm ( 11 @.@ 8 in ) of Vickers cemented armour amidships ; below it was a strake of 100 mm ( 3 @.@ 9 in ) armour . The upper armoured deck consisted of two layers of high @-@ tensile steel 55 mm ( 2 @.@ 2 in ) thick and the lower armoured deck also consisted of two layers of high @-@ tensile steel , but only 30 mm ( 1 @.@ 2 in ) thick . The sides of this deck sloped downwards to meet the bottom of the lower strake of the belt armour . The ends of the belt armour were closed off by bulkheads that ranged in thickness from 203 to 102 mm ( 8 to 4 in ) . The turrets were protected with an armour thickness of 254 mm ( 10 in ) on the face and 76 mm on the roof . The casemate armour was 149 mm ( 5 @.@ 9 in ) thick and that of the barbettes was 299 mm thick rather than the originally planned 305 mm . The sides of the conning tower were 305 mm thick . The Ise class were the only Japanese battleships to place the powder magazine above the shell magazine as the IJN wished to put as much space as possible between the highly flammable propellant and mine and torpedo detonations . The danger from plunging shells at long distances was not appreciated until the fatal magazine explosions of three British battlecruisers during the 1916 Battle of Jutland graphically demonstrated the point . To further protect the magazines the depth of the double bottom was increased to a total of 3 @.@ 58 metres ( 11 ft 9 in ) underneath the barbettes and magazines . Additionally , the vessels contained 660 watertight compartments to preserve buoyancy in the event of battle damage . In addition to the torpedo bulge added when the ships were modernized , the deck armour over the machinery and magazines was increased to a total thickness of 140 mm . Inside the original skin of the ships , two torpedo bulkheads were also added and the turret roofs were increased to a total of 152 millimetres ( 6 in ) of armour . While the details of the ship 's fire @-@ control instruments are not fully available , it is known that the ships were fitted with a fire @-@ control director after completion . No computer was fitted at that time and data from the rangefinders had to be processed manually . Turrets 2 , 3 , and 5 were built with imported 6 @-@ metre ( 19 ft 8 in ) Bausch & Lomb rangefinders . These were felt to be inferior to the British Barr & Stroud instruments used on other ships and were removed in 1920 . They were replaced by either the British rangefinders or domestically built instruments of 6 or 8 metres ( 19 ft 8 in or 26 ft 3 in ) length . In the late 1920s the fire @-@ control systems were upgraded and additional platforms were added to the foremast to accommodate them . A pair of directors for the 12 @.@ 7 cm AA guns were added , one on each side of the forward superstructure , in the early 1930s . The fire @-@ control systems were again upgraded in the mid @-@ 1930s and directors were added for the 25 mm AA guns . Both ships had 10 @-@ metre ( 32 ft 10 in ) rangefinders installed at the top of the pagoda mast at that time . Type 21 air @-@ search radars were installed aboard the sisters in mid @-@ 1942 . Ise was briefly fitted with an aircraft flying @-@ off platform for a Mitsubishi 1MF3 fighter on Turret No. 2 in 1927 . It was replaced by a platform on Turret No. 5 for a Yokosuka E1Y reconnaissance floatplane in 1928 – 29 . A catapult and a collapsible 4 @-@ tonne ( 3 @.@ 9 @-@ long @-@ ton ) crane were fitted on the stern during the mid @-@ 1930s modernization , and the ships were equipped to operate three floatplanes , although no hangar was provided . The initial Nakajima E4N2 biplanes were replaced by Nakajima E8N2 biplanes in 1938 . The sinking of the British capital ships Prince of Wales and Repulse by Japanese land @-@ based aircraft on 10 December 1941 led the IJN to realize that battleships could not operate in the face of enemy aircraft and required friendly air support to protect them . The loss of four Japanese aircraft carriers during the Battle of Midway in June 1942 severely limited the ability of the IJN to provide any air cover and alternatives were sought . Earlier proposals to convert one or more battleships into carriers had been made and rejected at the beginning of the war , but they were revived after Midway . Plans for more elaborate conversions were rejected on the grounds of expense and , most critically , time , and the IJN settled on removing the rear pair of turrets and replacing them with a flight deck equipped with two catapults to launch floatplanes . The Ise @-@ class ships were selected for the conversion because Hyūga had suffered an explosion in Turret No. 5 in early May that virtually destroyed the turret and their Turret No. 6 could not elevate to the full + 43 degrees deemed necessary for the long @-@ range engagement anticipated by the IJN . The Fusōs were scheduled to follow once the first two were completed . The rear turrets , the barbettes and their supporting structures were removed beginning in early 1943 and the openings in the middle deck were covered by 152 mm plates salvaged from the turret armour . All of the 14 cm guns were removed and the casemate openings sealed off . Four additional twin 12 @.@ 7 cm mounts were added , one pair abreast the funnel and the other abreast the conning tower . The original ten twin 25 mm gun mounts were replaced by triple mounts and nine new triple mounts were added , a total of 57 guns . Two each Type 94 and Type 95 AA directors were added to control the additional guns . The ammunition for these new guns was stored in the magazines originally used for the 14 cm guns and for Turret No. 5 . During 1944 , the ships ' AA defences were reinforced with an additional dozen triple and eleven single 25 mm gun mounts , for a total of 104 barrels , and a pair of Type 13 early warning radars were added . In September six 30 @-@ round AA rocket launchers were added on the sides of the flight deck . A 70 @-@ metre @-@ long ( 229 ft 8 in ) flight deck was built above the stern and stretched forward to the rebuilt aft superstructure . The flight deck was 29 metres ( 95 ft 2 in ) wide at its forward end and 13 metres ( 42 ft 8 in ) at the stern . It overhung the stern and increased the overall length of the ships to 219 @.@ 62 metres ( 720 ft 6 in ) . A pair of rotating gunpowder @-@ propelled catapults were fitted on the sides of the hull , forward of the aft superstructure where they partially restricted the arc of fire of the two amidships turrets . They could launch aircraft up to 4 @,@ 600 kilograms ( 10 @,@ 100 lb ) in weight and required 30 seconds to launch each aircraft . The flight deck had eight permanent storage positions connected by rails to the catapults and the hydraulically operated aircraft lift that brought the aircraft up from the hangar below on the trolleys used to move the floatplanes about . Two aircraft were intended to be stowed on the catapults and three more in temporary positions on the flight deck for a total of thirteen . The 40 @-@ metre @-@ long ( 131 ft 3 in ) hangar was 20 metres ( 65 ft 7 in ) wide forward and 11 metres ( 36 ft 1 in ) at the rear . It was 6 metres ( 19 ft 8 in ) high and designed to stow nine aircraft . It was fitted with fire fighting foam and carbon dioxide dispensers as a result of wartime experience . The ' T ' -shaped lift was 12 @.@ 1 metres ( 39 ft 8 in ) wide at its forward end and 6 @.@ 6 metres ( 21 ft 8 in ) wide at the its aft end . It was 12 @.@ 1 metres long and had a capacity of 6 tonnes ( 5 @.@ 9 long tons ) . Petrol storage tanks with a capacity of 76 tonnes ( 75 long tons ) were installed in the former magazine of Turret No. 6 to provide each aircraft with enough fuel for three sorties . To recover the aircraft the collapsible crane formerly on the stern was moved up to the port side of the flight deck . Another crane was intended on the starboard side , but it was never fitted . The ships had an air group of 11 each of Yokosuka D4Y dive bombers ( Allied reporting name " Judy " ) and Aichi E16A reconnaissance aircraft ( Allied reporting name " Paul " ) Both aircraft had development problems and neither air group ever had all of its intended aircraft . Coupled with a shortage of trained pilots , neither ship ever used its aircraft during combat . After the loss of the fast battleship Hiei at the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal in late 1942 to rudder damage , the IJN decided to reinforce the protection of the steering compartment and to create an auxiliary steering compartment . The protection of the former was strengthened by the addition of a concrete wall at least 1 metre ( 3 ft 3 in ) in thickness and some of the armour removed from the turrets was used to protect the latter . The double bottom below the former positions of aft turrets was converted to hold fuel oil ; this increased the ships ' endurance to 9 @,@ 500 nautical miles ( 17 @,@ 600 km ; 10 @,@ 900 mi ) at a speed of 16 knots . A pair of Type 22 surface @-@ search radars were also fitted during the conversion . The removal of the secondary armament , the rear turrets and their supporting structures was generally compensated by the addition of the flight deck , hangar , AA guns and more fuel , and the metacentric height increased .23 metres ( 9 @.@ 1 in ) to 2 @.@ 81 metres ( 9 ft 3 in ) at full load as a result of the reduction in the displacement by over 2 @,@ 000 tonnes ( 2 @,@ 000 long tons ) to 40 @,@ 444 tonnes ( 39 @,@ 805 long tons ) . This also reduced the draught to 9 @.@ 03 metres ( 29 ft 8 in ) . The overhang of the flight deck at the stern increased the overall length to 219 @.@ 62 metres ( 720 ft 6 in ) and the beam was slightly reduced to 31 @.@ 71 metres ( 104 ft 0 in ) . Upon commissioning , the sister ships were assigned to the 1st Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet . Hyūga had an explosion in one of her main gun turrets that killed 11 men and injured 25 in 1919 ; the following year she accidentally collided with and sank a schooner , losing two crewmen . Before the start of the Pacific War , both ships frequently exercised off the coasts of the Soviet Union , Korea and China in addition to training in Japanese waters . Ise hosted Edward , Prince of Wales , and his aide @-@ de @-@ camp Lieutenant Louis Mountbatten in 1922 during the prince 's visit to Japan . In Korea Bay when the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake struck , they sailed to Kyushu where they loaded supplies from for the victims on 4 September . Together with two other battleships and a pair of light cruisers , Ise sank the destroyer Yayoi in 1926 during gunnery practice . Ise 's AA armament was upgraded in 1931 and Hyūga 's two years later . The latter ship was modernized in 1934 – 36 and Ise in 1935 – 37 , both at Kure Naval Arsenal . During the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War , the sisters frequently patrolled the Chinese coast in support of the blockade imposed by Japan . In August 1937 Hyūga ferried two battalions of Special Naval Landing Forces to Port Arthur . Three years later , she served as the flagship for the Emperor of the puppet state of Manchukuo , Henry Pu @-@ yi , during his state visit to Japan in June 1940 . On 15 November the ships were transferred to the 2nd Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet . The sisters were refitted in late 1940 in preparation for war , which included the fitting of external degaussing coils and additional AA directors . When Japan began the Pacific War on 8 December , the sisters sortied for the Bonin Islands with four other battleships and the light carrier Hōshō as distant cover for the fleet attacking Pearl Harbor , and returned six days later . On 11 March 1942 Ise and Hyūga sortied from their anchorage at Hashirajima to join the unsuccessful search for the American carrier force that had attacked Marcus Island a week earlier . Similarly they pursued but did not catch the American carriers that had launched the Doolittle Raid on 18 April . During gunnery training on 5 May , there was a premature detonation in the left gun of Hyūga 's Turret No. 5 that disabled both guns and killed 51 crewmen . Both aft magazines were flooded to douse the resulting fire and save the ship . She received temporary repairs during which the turret was removed and replaced by a circular armour plate on which three triple 25 mm gun mounts were positioned . On 11 May a valve in Ise 's No. 2 engine room stuck in the open position and flooded the engine room . While under repair at Kure , both ships received prototype Type 21 radars . Commanded by Vice @-@ Admiral Shirō Takasu , the 2nd Battleship Division set sail with the Aleutian Support Group on 28 May , at the same time that most of the Imperial Fleet began an attack on Midway Island ( Operation MI ) . They returned home on 14 June and the IJN began preliminary planning to replace the lost carriers with hybrid carriers converted from battleships . The sisters were selected for conversion and detached from the division on 14 July in preparation . They remained on " standby alert " until the actual conversions began . Ise was converted at Kure Naval Arsenal from 23 February to 5 September 1943 and Hyūga at Sasebo Naval Arsenal from 2 May to 30 November . After completing her sea trials , Ise was attached to the Imperial Japanese Naval Academy at Etajima and ferried troops and munitions to the naval base at Truk in October . In November the ship began working up , joined by the newly completed Hyūga the following month , and both rejoined the 2nd Battleship Division . On 1 May 1944 , the sisters were transferred to Rear Admiral Matsuda Chiaki 's reformed Fourth Carrier Division of the 3rd Fleet . The division 's 634th Naval Air Group was formed that same day and conducted its first catapult launches in late June . Shortages of aircraft and serviceability problems greatly retarded pilot training and the ships only had a total of 17 D4Ys and 18 E16As on hand on 1 October ; of these , only 6 and 16 were operational , respectively .
